Hello everyone and welcome to lecture on resume preparation.
So what we're going to do for this lecture is check out a sample resume and highlight 12 key factors
from it.
So you're left we have our own example resume.
And the first thing we're going to notice is that it's one page.
So recruiters do not read your resume.
They do about a 15 to 30 second spot check of your resume when your resume is too long.
It just takes your best stuff the stuff that would have made it one page cut and dilutes it with more
mediocre content.
So lengthy resumes don't make you more impressive.
A good rule of thumb is to keep your resume to one page if you have less than 10 years of experience
or at most two pages if you have more than 10 years of experience.
The second point you want to make here is there is no objective statement.
So all the objective does is stay in a wordy way what position interested in the company already knows
that because you applied for a particular position.
So at best it's just going to waste space and at worst it will limit use and will exclude other positions
that might have been interesting to you that the company may have been considering you for.
So again my recommendation is to not put in an objective statement on your resume.
Third point you want to make here is to use a resume template with columns.
So unless you're great design you probably shouldn't be creating your own resume template.
They'll most likely just look sloppy sloppy.
So after this lecture we'll go over some resume creation tools and in the third lecture of this section
there's actually a list of a resume Creation web sites.
So again you'll be using a template of some sort.
Don't try to do it on your own unless you're actually applying for a position where design is a key
factor to your skills.
Number four use tables.
So again if you're using Microsoft words create your resume which you probably should or at least some
sort of word Ed. You should use Microsoft words tables.
Just make sure to hide the borders afterwards.
So if you look at number four here this allows you to organize things better.
So point number five that we want to make is to keep bullets short because resume screeners only spend
anywhere between 15 and 30 seconds on your resume.
The length of the bullets anything that feels like a paragraph just won't get read.
So keep your bullets to one or two lines with one line being better than two.
Point number six we want to make is that accomplishment oriented so your bullets should focus on your
accomplishments.
That is the impact you had rather than your responsibilities.
Sheesh you should be describing what did you build create zine optimized lead etc..
Another key factor to a good bullet point is to quantify things.
So whenever possible you should quantify your accomplishments if you optimize something by how much
if you want an award out of how many people if you save the certain amount of money on a project how
much.
OK this is more for students but on number eights you're a general rule of thumb is to list your GPA
it's at least 3.0 or higher.
But there are two important rules to know here.
The first one is you may choose to list your in major GPA if it's higher than your overall GPA but you
need to specify that it's your major GPA.
Point number two here is if your school uses a different scale such as a ten point scale you may want
to convert your GPA to a 4.0 scale which would be a more widely understood especially if you're applying
to USA companies.
Point Number nine is projects.
So most candidates should pick their top three to five projects to list on their resume.
These can be academic required projects or just independent projects that you decided to take on.
They do not need to be completed or launched either.
As long as you done enough for the media to work on them that's good enough to put them on your resume
.
Point number 10 on additional experience so you can put additional experience like leadership activities
or awards in a section like this such as shown on this resume.
So change the name of the section depending on what you list.
Be careful here to focus on what really matters.
If you're applying for a coding role your role as an Eagle Scout in high school is probably not really
important or relevant to the position you're applying to 11 languages and technologies so it's a good
idea to list your languages and technologies but remember that anything you list here will be fair game
for the interviewer to test.
So if you want to list the language you happen to be a little rusty in it consider listing it as something
like C++ proficient C-Sharp prior experience etc..
So you actually quantify your experience in each of those programming languages.
So point twelve.
What did you not include.
So you got to remember is there anything impressive or interesting that you've done that you left out
.
About 50 percent of candidates leave out an important project or other component of their experience
because it wasn't finished or official enough.
So if you've done it and it's impressive enough to make the cut you shouldn't just list everything you've
ever done.
Keep that in mind.
But if you're if it's impressive enough to make the cut that it belongs on your resume.
All right so Up next our resume builder Web sites and a list of resume Creation web sites.
Thanks everyone.
I'll see you at the next lecture